.TH IMGCRUSH 1 "2025" "imgcrush 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
imgcrush \- Metal-accelerated image optimizer for macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imgcrush
.RI [ input ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B imgcrush
optimizes images using Apple Metal GPU compute shaders for maximum performance.
Supports PNG, JPEG, and WebP formats with batch processing, format conversion,
and resize capabilities.
.PP
On Intel Macs or when Metal is unavailable, processing falls back to
Accelerate/vImage automatically.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I input
File or directory to optimize. When a directory is given, all supported
images inside are processed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIformat\fR
Output format: \fBpng\fR, \fBjpeg\fR, \fBwebp\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-quality " " \fI1\-100\fR
Compression quality for lossy formats. Default: auto.
.TP
.BR \-\-resize " " \fIWxH\fR
Resize image to specified dimensions (e.g. 800x600).
.TP
.BR \-\-output " " \fIdirectory\fR
Write output to specified directory instead of in-place.
.TP
.BR \-\-recursive
Process subdirectories when input is a directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output results as JSON for CI/CD integration.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Preview changes without modifying files.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Show detailed processing information including Metal device.
.TP
.BR \-\-activate " " \fIkey\fR
Activate a license key. Requires \fB\-\-email\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-email " " \fIemail\fR
Email address for license activation.
.TP
.BR \-\-license\-status
Display current license or trial status.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Display version information.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Optimize a single image:
.RS
.nf
imgcrush photo.png
.fi
.RE
.PP
Convert to WebP:
.RS
.nf
imgcrush photo.png \-\-format webp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Batch optimize with quality:
.RS
.nf
imgcrush ./images/ \-\-quality 85 \-\-recursive
.fi
.RE
.PP
CI/CD with JSON output:
.RS
.nf
imgcrush ./assets/ \-\-json \-\-recursive
.fi
.RE
.PP
Dry run with verbose:
.RS
.nf
imgcrush ./images/ \-\-dry\-run \-\-verbose
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General processing error.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid input (file not found, unsupported format).
.TP
.B 3
Permission denied.
.TP
.B 4
License invalid or expired.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.imgcrush-license
License activation data (JSON).
.TP
.I ~/.imgcrush-trial
Trial start timestamp (JSON).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B imgcrush
uses Apple Metal when available and falls back to CPU automatically.
No environment variables are required.
.SH AUTHOR
Jakub Jirák <jakub@htmeta.dev>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR convert (1),
.BR sips (1)
.PP
Website: https://imgcrush.dev
